Functions are a way to help us organize
our code in a way that is reusable.
It lets us accept arguments like
we saw earlier on in the class.
It also lets us provide defaults
where needed and loops.
Let us take actions on collections of
items that we've built up our lists or
dictionaries or tuples.
And then we can use Boolean logic
to control the flow of the program.
Now, we've been working in the repo so
far,
it's time to move on to
working in Python files.
We wanna be able to save,
and reuse, and run again.
So, if you need to create a Python file,
it ends in a .py extension.
There are some naming conventions that you
can find in pep eight guidelines, but for
the most part Python file names
should be all in lowercase.
They should be separated.
The words should be
separated with underscores.
File names should be as short as possible.
And they should end in .py.
We're gonna talk about modules a little
bit later, but you don't want to.
It's called Smurf.
Name your files.
So you don't wanna say my _libAPIs,
my_libhelpers, my_libutilities.
Instead, you would put all of those
in a folder called my_lib and
just name them the simple files names,
just APIs.
Just exceptions just blog.py.
Here are some bad example file names.
Don't name your Python files in all caps.
Don't use camel case.
So capitalizing the first letter of
each word that is a best practice or
standard from a different
programming language.
And don't use smurfy
really_long_ever_descriptive_project_file-
_name.py.
You might see .pyc files
in your directory as you
start running your Python projects,
those are.
Complied intermediary python
files they are for optimization.
You don't have to worry about them.
But you do need to be careful
about not committing them to get.
So those pyc files are just
they don't matter.
They don't need to be
included with your program.
And sometimes, stale versions of
these files can cause problems.
For example, if you're checking
out a different branch in git, and
your pi c files don't really match.
So if you're running into weird problems
when working with Python files,
you can use this command on Mac or
Linux to.
Find all of those pyc files and
just blow them away all at once.
We already saw how to run Python
programs from VS code and
how to create new Python files.
If you want to run that same
file from your terminal,
you just need to make sure that you
have your Virtual Environment activated,
and let's see what I have in this file.
So again, when your virtual
environment is activated,
you can just use Python,
not Python 3 or Python 3.9.
Python is the executable in your
virtual environment that you
know maps to the right place.
And then you would just
pass in the file name.
Or envious code We would want to make
sure to exit our ripple and
then run python file in terminal.
And I will go ahead and do the same thing.
So those are the different options.
Once we move on to files, remember
earlier, I said that the repo, when you
type a variable or a string, it'll just
show you the value right then and there.
That functionality does
not exist in files.
So if you want to see
the output in Python files,
you're gonna need to start
putting print statements in them.
So make sure that you print the values
of your strings if you want to see them.
If not, that's totally fine as well.
You can have print statements
in while you debug and
then comment them out once
your program is ready.
Or once you start writing more advanced
programs, you might use the logger module.
Which lets you configure how output
from your Python program is presented.
That is outside of
the scope of the course.
So I won't be covering it today.
So if you're going to be
sharing your code with a team,
or you plan on sharing it, or
you're working in production.
You generally, don't want to leave
print statements littered in your code,
those are for your own debugging,
so something to be mindful of.
Output formatting tips, remember
earlier I showed you the backslash n
signified a new line,
backslash T is for tab.
You can use the special control
characters for your advantage when you're
printing stuff out, and
you want to make sure that it is readable.
You can also pretty print with something
called the pretty print module.
And I wanna show that to you quickly
because I find it super useful.
So, opening up my repple here,
I'm going to create a long list if I tried
to print this, it's not very readable.
Pretty print is included in
the Python standard library.
So I can say from p print,
import p print And
that will let me access this.
This module, because p print is not one
of those built-in functions that we saw.
It's not len it's not print where we
can just use it without importing it.
This is kind of a special case.
And once you have imported it,
we can pass in the long list here,
and it will go ahead and
print it out with line breaks.
So if you're looking at complex code,
this is a great tool to use to
make it more human readable